

This a model from the article:  
**Computational insights on the competing effects of nitric oxide in regulating apoptosis.**   
Bagci EZ, Vodovotz Y, Billiar TR, Ermentrout B, Bahar I. _PLoS One_ 2008 May
28;3(5):e2249 [18509469](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18509469) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Despite the establishment of the important role of nitric oxide (NO) on
apoptosis, a molecular-level understanding of the origin of its dichotomous
pro- and anti-apoptotic effects has been elusive. We propose a new
mathematical model for simulating the effects of nitric oxide (NO) on
apoptosis. The new model integrates mitochondria-dependent apoptotic pathways
with NO-related reactions, to gain insights into the regulatory effect of the
reactive NO species N(2)O(3), non-heme iron nitrosyl species (FeL(n)NO), and
peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)). The biochemical pathways of apoptosis coupled with
NO-related reactions are described by ordinary differential equations using
mass-action kinetics. In the absence of NO, the model predicts either cell
survival or apoptosis (a bistable behavior) with shifts in the onset time of
apoptotic response depending on the strength of extracellular stimuli.
Computations demonstrate that the relative concentrations of anti- and pro-
apoptotic reactive NO species, and their interplay with glutathione, determine
the net anti- or pro-apoptotic effects at long time points. Interestingly,
transient effects on apoptosis are also observed in these simulations, the
duration of which may reach up to hours, despite the eventual convergence to
an anti-apoptotic state. Our computations point to the importance of precise
timing of NO production and external stimulation in determining the eventual
pro- or anti-apoptotic role of NO.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Bagci EZ, Vodovotz Y, Billiar TR, Ermentrout B,
Bahar I. (2008) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/c88faf27bf1debd1d733f555269f64b9)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Wendy Kang**   
wkan014@aucklanduni.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

